This is my angry black woman poem. 
It’s loud. It’s angry. It’s black. It’s woman. 
It’s loud and it’s angry and it’s black and it’s woman because y’all love to watch us be loud and angry and black and woman. 
So, ask me why I’m mad. I’m mad cuz I’m paying attention. 
See, this country think they slick. I mean my president is black but not my Jesus. 
Prefer I get sterilized than get birth control. 
Swear it was Janae Rice’s fault, ask if Rihanna hit him first, 
call Quvenzhane Wallis "Annie" instead as a reminder that beasts of the Southern wilds don’t get to name themselves. 
Discuss the hair on Gabby Douglas’ head 
before the gold draped around her neck and how it looks nothing like rope 
and chain but still represents America. I’m mad ‘cuz you still askin’ to touch my hair. 
Mad the revolution will not be televised because you must have a perm to report it 
but the white girls wanna start callin’ their curls natural. Wearin’ braids and gellin’ baby hairs like that’s new. 
Demanding access to this experience when they will never know the crack of a nap conquering the comb, 
the raw of skin scrubbed red but not quite white, 
I’m mad because Vogue magazine traced the lineage of my big booty back to Kim Kardashian, 
because somewhere in America, Miley Cyrus is still twerking, 
while Iggy Azalea sips the ghetto through a straw like she’s on vacation. 
See everyone wants to be me but they won’t let me be me. They tell me to lower my voice, straighten my hair, 
no braids no buns no twists no afros no scarves they look too much like crowns. Less hood rat. 
Less Nikki Minaj more Aunt Jemimah, 
told to keep this sweet smile full of syrup, this belly haughty and singing, this head bowed and these hands busy. 
I’m mad because racism, sexism, patriarchy, misogyny and colorism at the same damn time. 
Because they won’t even cast dark skinned women to play dark skinned women in movies about dark skinned women. 
Because every time my brother walks out that door, the words “Be safe,” kneel at my lips and I pray to a god I’ll only believe in if he brings my brother home alive. 
Mourning still because you know about

I’m human. I’m human. I just happen to have a hell of a lot to be angry about.